But these people sense them.
They don't know where the snow and the slash and the coal whims and most of us called bad
coal.
I don't think there has been as much enthusiasm or as large a crowd in spite of the coal
weather in town as there was for the Mr. Kennedy's inauguration.
It was a great on-point and a good point of view of the country and we were certain
that we had a great number of our fans from Tennessee.
It was a truly great inaugural, a great occasion and we lived through the snow.
We had three bands from Tennessee and other states had one so we got to all edge on.
Let me mention a couple of those outstanding bands from the four district of Tennessee from the
University of Seoul, that's Suwani and also the Mokersberg band.
They were very proud of them.
I won the draw and they had a band and Mars town.
I promised the people at Mars town that they were very excellent band could be invited to
march in the parade.
They won the National Honors last year.
But if there only wanted one for one state so I got Jigs Dunnay here to parade chairman
let them march in place of the Virgin owls which didn't send a band up here.
Tennessee played a big part.
I had the feeling that during inauguration it was been happening since 1933 even.
President Roosevelt took over.
Of course there was a tremendous domestic recession and depression at that time.
Always not well over the mystic.
But we do have a great international problems and then as now it is a time for great leadership
and a firmative action.
I think our president has been showing that in his inaugural address.
I mean this message is to the Congress don't you?
Yes, the president delivered a great inaugural address and I think all of us at the Congress have been impressed
with the great speech which he delivered before the joint session of the Congress.
His first message on the state of the union.
Well I thought that this speech had the state of justice he saw it without missing any words
without trying to cover over anything.
The pictures he saw at the day economically.
That is that we have a lot of bad situations that we have to but they're not hopeless.
And then in the international affairs and among the nations of the world we have lost some standing.
There has been some deterioration that fair again with leadership,
with sacrifice that we can think about a better condition.
I thought it was a very forthright fine assessment.
And after all the American people ought to know exactly where we stand.
Well certainly he discussed domestic issues but he greatly appointed up a trouble spots in the world
and indicated that America would not be second to the nation in power and strength.
It was a message of security and national defense.
The president has certainly as a precise mind and a factual knowledge of a grasp of things
and all of these reaching through to the public and his views.
Or from a program with Congress.
Well I thought not only in the state of the union message as well as a novel message of this.
I don't know what he had to say but the force of which he delivered his speech.
The dedication and the cheers you in sincerity.
As things you know that the president, John F. Kennedy and I were classmates together
and we came to Congress at the same time and my classmate has now become president.
1946, 1946.
I was there with you in 1946 and 1947 and I came over to the Senate and to your classmate.
Yes, join us and I remember that with our member.
At first session when you and I served together in the House I didn't get to see you very much.
You were campaigning for the Senate.
Well you know you have to do that sometimes.
Well I have a feeling also that similar to what we had in 1933 that we have a lot of new faces around.
A lot of young people with vision.
And you frontier.
And you frontier and who wanted to sing that song said the country is in the best of hands.
Is that David Crocket?
Good day.
All in all there are a lot of our fine, capable young men and women who have come into government service
with great dedication many of them making sacrifices.
And I feel that by and large Mr. Kennedy has gotten very good men to advise and work with them.
Certainly he has surrounded himself with some very good men.
Even the former president has committed him on a selection of his cabinet and said that he was and he had been able to attract some of these very outstanding men.
It is assistance and any kind of men nominated.
And I think that is a just spotler who used to be General Counsel for the Tennessee Valley Authority to be chairman of the Federal Power Commission.
And a very significant selection.
I was very pleased that the president select them to become chairman.
It was very important to have a commission.
He comes from Nashville where he has been practicing law since he left the TVA in Africa.
He is a fair man.
I think he is horseful.
I think he has the viewpoint of the consumer.
And believe me we have been meeting that viewpoint and federal power.
As you know, the operation of the Federal Power Commission among all of the independent agencies as the one who is least functioning properly in the public interest.
In the last few years it administers the natural gas act and the granting of franchises on the construction of great power dams the alternation.
It is a very important commission.
I think Mr. Switzer will make a very excellent chairman.
Of course there has been a whole lot of men here in the last few days about the violent and house of representatives over the change in the rules committee.
And you have been right there where it has been taking place where the fire has been going on.
So tell us about what the shootings are all about.
As you know, at the beginning of each new session of the Congress, both the House and the Senate adopt rules of procedure for their individual bodies.
The House has already adopted for the 87th Congress the same rules of procedure as were employed in the 86th Congress.
But while adopting the same rules, we have been evaluating and considering the operations of the committee whether it has been written through the functioning.
The real issue and the rules committee was whether or not the elected representatives of all the people, the entire House should have a right to work its will.
Where they should have a right to vote on legislation.
A very small group or a handful or a small minority voted 12.
Well, even 203 whether vote could tie up a legislation.
It has been charges that bills have been phishing hold that have been a real block and even vetoed.
And certain legislation has not been permitted to reach the floor of the House.
Now, let us take a bill that has been debated for weeks and for months before a standing legislative committee of the Congress.
After the bill has been discussed, publicans have been heard and the majority of the membership vote upon a bill.
Then the function of the rules committee is to orderly proceed on to the floor with measures for the House to debate and consider.
If it has started in the time and the day and the hours and the numbers of bills that will flow on to the floor, they schedule them as they're trafficked to pass along.
The rules committee is not supposed to be a dead end street.
It is supposed to be a committee to orderly permit legislation to come on to the floor for debate and consideration.
Now, there has been instances of which maybe there are many bills that shouldn't pass.
I am there in the past, I have voted for a rule to bring the bill on the floor to debate it, which is democratic.
It certainly is democratic to have a prediscation of a measure, even controversial measures.
But then after the bill was debated, after it was possibly amended and made noxious, I would vote against it on final passage.
But the real issue of whether the four elected representatives should have a right to debate and to the vote upon legislation,
although there are a few of very small minority should walk legislation and deny the House the right to exercise its will.
It certainly will house the elected representatives of the people should have a right to vote upon legislation.
The rules committee is not a committee to legislation, it's a administrative committee, it's an all of the leadership historically.
It's a good, good, good leadership.
Well, Joe, thank you very much for telling us about the issue and certainly if we're going to get a new program over the entire membership of the House of Representatives all to have a chance to vote.
My committee on appropriations has 50 members and the membership of this committee has been increased since I've been here.
The rules committee used to be composed of five members.
And the last few years, I've said along the way, which is an even number, can do so to a tie vote, 66.
So there have been a lot of tie votes and legislation has not reached the floor.
So it's nothing unusual to change a committee of the Congress, as a matter of fact, we adopted a resolution allowing the speaker and the binocular leader to adjust the ratio of members of the committee.
This committee has been composed of 12 members, now it will be composed of 15 with three additions, two Democrats and one Republican.
By the way, the speaker has just announced, as you know, the two new Democratic members of the committee.
There are a Congressman Carl Elliott, a Alabama and a BF Sisk of California.
Yeah, both of them are in a very substantial position.
Very sound, man, very good man.
Well, in the first and state of the union message, he of course couldn't go into details about all of the things he was going to do.
And there were some little criticism on that part, but he's been acting very rapidly since that time.
He's issued a presence in executive order and expanding the surplus food distribution principally by, and then also setting up food staff areas, now hope that we'll get one in Tennessee.
Another very important thing he did was that the community facilities program, which has only been applicable to sewers and water districts and water and gas, has been expanded so as to be applicable to anything else.
And, incidentally, to arrive introduced to build him and large the community facilities program, so as to have a revolving fund of $1 billion to be loaned on worthwhile projects that are rate of interest, one for the bulk of the government has to pay for its money.
As it is, as a representative of a lot of our very excellent small towns, I know that they have benefited from this program for municipal water works, sidewalks for libraries for hospital construction and various municipal and community improvements.
Well, these are things that not only need to be done, there have been many improvements to the government.
A loan program, a loan program, everybody, they have certainly given employment to a great many people.
And also, we've been there, housing starts have been almost dried up so that President has lowered the interest rate by one quarter of a percent or one half a percent, no one fourth of a percent on FHA home loans, which ought to happen that respect.
And I think Joe that President was wise in following the suggestion of the joint use of staff and revoking the order about the dependence on having to be sent back.
I think that by trying to get them to restrict travel, tourism abroad and to buy their capital equipment here and let me say, I would certainly be for cutting down on some expensive years abroad but not at the expense of the American soldier and American servicemen and their families.
Well, I was over the NATO parliamentarians conference shortly after this order went into effect and the effect on them around our soldiers was evident to be seen.
Certainly must be all the ways where the same result can be accomplished.
But Joe, I want to tell you how good it is to have you over here with us and we are going to have a very exciting and I know a very useful session of Congress.
I hope that one of these days we can get you back to joining and reporting to people who are kind of saying, yes, this is very nice to invite me.
Ladies and gentlemen, until four weeks from today, when we will bring you another report, that's all. Thank you very much.